---
layout: post
title: XML & JSON
---

Creator: (similar to factory and builder) Plays upon sole responsibility ~ only create objects where you need them.        
Information Expert: (similar to Single Responsibility Principle) Objects should be responsible for one thing and should be experts at that one thing. [Focused on one thing]        
Low Coupling: (ties in with High Cohesion) Occurs when there is a small amount of dependencies, therefore increasing the usability of objects throughout the program.         
High Cohesion: (ties in with Low Coupling) Occurs when objects are relatable without coupling and when there is a small amount of "one-liner" objects [can't reuse them].        
Controller: The idea that the interaction between two "sides" needs to be controlled. The Controller delegates work between the independent "chunks".        
Indirection: Kind of like the parent to Controller; the process of breaking up "chunks" into independent pieces and then allowing the Controller to step in and delegate the interaction between the two.        
Polymorphism: Different forms, many children, different implementations BUT all execute the same. Prefer to use polymorphism and try to avoid grabbing the child and warping them to fit what you needed.        
Protected Variations: (similar to immutability) Big idea, to protect how the objects can change. Only change when necessary and with protection.        
Pure Fabrication: Finds moments in your code when the objects are doing multiple things (NOT Single Responsiblity Principle) and pops it out into a new Class.        
